## How to choose a good algorithm?

Space and time are two determining concepts in the evaluation of an algorithm. Space is the amount of memory you use to solve a problem. The time consists of the speed at which that algorithm is executed.

To find a good algorithm we can see how long it takes to run, or how much space it takes up in memory.

Time or space, which is better for the development of an algorithm?
The ideal in a solution is that the space is as little as possible and the time is as fast as possible. However, this is not always fulfilled.

We can sacrifice one to give priority to the other. For example, using more memory to increase speed, as in Chrome. Also, we can slow down, but with minimal memory usage, like in Lite apps (Facebook Lite).

Depending on the objective of your application, the good use of space and time is crucial for the development of an optimal algorithm, taking into account each situation or the problem that you want to solve.

Performance on embedded devices
In embedded devices, good memory management is critical, since it is required to maximize the space it occupies, no matter how long it is processed.

JavaScript performance
In particular, in JavaScript it is more relevant to target time rather than space. Because JavaScript code usually doesn't run on devices with very limited memory (as it does on embedded devices).

This doesn't mean that there aren't particular cases, or that space is always less important than time, it's just the environment of the JavaScript software.